# Subtitles

[Slide 1]  
Today I’m gonna talk to you about the Html 5 web audio API. So basically with the Web Audio API you can do a lot of stuff like creating music playing sounds and doing audio processing all from inside of the browser. It’s pretty amazing how much you can do just with an index page and one javascript-file using the window object.

[Slide 2]  
So you can play audio files, create sounds with oscillators (I’ll talk about oscillators a bit later), manipulate audio from microphone or camera so you can use various sensors, you can route sounds into effects like delay, reverb, distortion and filter, you can also analyze sounds using visualizations like an oscilloscope.

[Slide 3]  
It starts off with is something called an audio context which is kind of like a box around a modular synthesizer in other words is a big box with a million knobs and cords coming in and out of it. And each one of these like a little module that does something specific like create an oscillator or it’ll have a filter effect or distortion or something like that. You can create an audio context in Javascript-file really quickly by just doing new window dot audio context and it all comes as a part of html5. Basically the way it’s gonna work is that you create this audio context and that you create these little modules inside of it and you hook up connections to them so you can get something that creating a sound you connect it to something that affects the sound and then you connect that to the destination which would be the speakers on your computer.

[Slide 4]  
To create an oscillator, you just need to do audio context that create oscillator and then on this oscillator object there’s a bunch of values like the frequency or the type of oscillator. Basically an oscillator is something that creates a sound wave. A sound wave is a wave that oscillating between 20 Hertz and 20000 Hertz. That’s like an audible range.

[Slide 5]  
The type of oscillator is the type of wave. There are few types like a sine wave, square wave, triangle and sawtooth wave.

[Slide 6]  
Next up is a gain. So if you have an oscillator creating a sound wave often it’s a very-very weak signal, so you need to connect that to a gain which is gonna boost the signal so you can actually hear it. Same thing context that create gain. And gain dot value is like a volume depending on how you wrote your modules inside of this audio context.

[Slide 7]  
Next up is the thing that effect on a sound. I mean filter. So filter cut out some of the output of the oscillator. So if the type is low-pass everything that’s below will pass and etc.

[Slide 8]  
In this slide you can see the different types of filters. Such as a low-pass filter that passes only low frequencies. A high-pass filter that passes only high frequencies. A band-pass filter that passes only a certain range of frequencies. And a band-stop filter that does not pass a certain range of frequencies.

[Slide 9]  
Next step is connections. It’s simple as just connect something. So here I connected an oscillator to the filter, then filter connected to the gain and of course gain connected to our audio context. It’s a really easy way to create a sound with certain frequency and type using an oscillator, then add some effect to that sound, then connect a volume control and connected it to your speakers or headphones.

[Slide 10]  
So this is an audio routing graph. And it shows those process that I describe on the last slide: you have some input file or data, you can apply some effect using filters and then play through the speakers.

[Slide 11]  
We have here a simple oscillator with filter and LFO, where LFO is low-frequency oscillator. We can try to change properties and hear the difference.

[Slide 12]  
Next thing is visualization. When you connect something to an analyzer object you can get data from the source and just map it to different things.

[Slide 13]  
Therefore, I have example named “Mouse Theremin”. Theremin is an old electronic musical instrument. With it, you can create music without touching the instrument. It is generated by the movement of the performer’s hand. Here we move the cursor and thereby change the oscillator frequency.

[Slide 14]  
Another example is a really cool work. This guy made a drum machine. We can adjust all of these settings and also try a few demos.

[Slide 15]  
And the last example for today. This is my attempt to create something in music. So here I appended about ten buttons which controls the sound. Clicking the Start button we create an AudioContext, oscillator, define oscillator type as sine, frequency value as 261 Hertz, and volume as 0. When we hover the cursor on any lower button the volume is set to maximum and each button has her own detune parameter that detune main stream to a certain value. I think you guessed what the sequence of sounds was.

[Slide 16]  
Thanks for attention. Bye.